# Computational-Geometry

This project contains implementations of various computational geometry algorithms. Below is an overview of the project structure:

## Project Structure

### Folders

1. **headers**: This folder contains header files for classes and functions used in the project. These headers provide declarations for various geometric entities and operations.

<hr>
<hr>

2. **src**: The source folder contains the implementation files corresponding to the header files in the `headers` folder. It includes the definitions of classes and functions for performing geometric computations.

*GeomVector.cpp:*

a. **Constructor and Destructor**:
   - Defines constructors for creating geometric vectors with specified coordinates and a default constructor.
   - Includes a destructor, although it's not needed in this case as there are no dynamically allocated resources.

b. **Equality Operator**:
   - Overloads the equality operator (`==`) to check if two vectors are equal by comparing their x, y, and z coordinates.

c. **Vector Operations**:
   - Provides methods to perform vector operations such as dot product, cross product, magnitude calculation, and normalization.
   - Overloads arithmetic operators (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`) to support addition, subtraction, scalar multiplication, and scalar division of vectors.
   - Includes methods for setting the length of a vector, adding/subtracting scalar values, and multiplying/dividing by a scalar.

d. **Distance Calculation**:
   - Calculates the distance between two vectors and the distance between a vector and a plane.

e. **Angle Calculation**:
   - Computes the angle between two vectors and the angle between a vector and a plane.

f. **Direction Cosines**:
   - Calculates the direction cosines of a vector.

g. **Matrix Multiplication**:
   - Performs vector-matrix multiplication.

h. **Projection**:
   - Projects a vector onto another vector and projects a vector onto a plane.
--------------------------------------
*Matrix.cpp:*

a. **Default Constructor**:
   - Initializes the matrix to an identity matrix where diagonal elements are 1 and off-diagonal elements are 0.

b. **Parameterized Constructor**:
   - Initializes the matrix with the provided elements.

c. **getElement**:
   - Retrieves the element at the specified row and column of the matrix.
----------------------------------------
**Plane.cpp**

a. **Default Constructor**:
   - Initializes the plane with a default normal vector and a point at the origin.

b. **Parameterized Constructor**:
   - Initializes the plane with the specified normal vector and point on the plane.

c. **getNormal**:
   - Retrieves the normal vector of the plane.

d. **getPointOnPlane**:
   - Retrieves a point on the plane.
-----------------------------------------
*Point3D.cpp*

a. **Default Constructor**:
   - Initializes the point with coordinates (0, 0, 0).

b. **Parameterized Constructor**:
   - Initializes the point with the specified coordinates.

c. **getX, getY, getZ**:
   - Retrieves the coordinates of the point along the X, Y, and Z axes, respectively.

d. **setX, setY, setZ**:
   - Sets the coordinates of the point along the X, Y, and Z axes, respectively.

e. **operator<**:
   - Overloaded `<` operator to compare points based on their coordinates. Returns `true` if `this` point is less than `other` point.

f. **operator==**:
   - Overloaded `==` operator to check if two points are equal based on their coordinates.
-------------------------------------------
*Writer.cpp*
a. **write**:
   - Writes the geometric vectors provided in the `vectors` vector to the specified file indicated by `filePath`.
   - Opens the file for writing using `ofstream`.
   - Iterates through each geometric vector in the `vectors` vector and writes its coordinates to the file.
   - Upon successful writing, it prints a success message to the console.
   - Closes the file after writing is complete.

<hr>
<hr>

3. **output**: This folder is intended to store any output generated by the program. For example, if the program writes results to files, those files would be stored here.
<hr>
<hr>


## Usage

To use this project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the `src` directory.
3. Compile the source files.
4. Run the executable(main.cpp) generated after compilation.
5. `g++ main.cpp -o main.exe -I .\headers -L .\src -l lib`

